Saturday, June 08, 2024

Today I started by creating the skeleton of the main program functions.

Studying the program sample from the book I can see the following point

1) buffer size is a const , is not dynamic( Maybe this is a good thing?)
2) There is a USAGE message for the program. I sometimes forget about this.
3) Open, Read, Write, Close function have error checking.

I'll start writing this function tomorrow.

Sunday, June 09, 2024

Today I added the open and read functions, should be good enough to move into
next steps where I make the write function.

Monday, June 10, 2024

Today I finished the first needed functionality of the program which is making a
copy of a file.

Tomorrow I'll play with the notion of being able to write half to a file and 
half to another. (Splitting)

Tuesday, June 11, 2024

Today I finished the function that allows me to split a file into n pieces.

Tomorrow I'll work on creating a function that can merge them.

Saturday, June 15, 2024

I'm working on fixing the split function, I think I managed to get it to write 
offsets corretly. but I need to start testing if it is correctly being written 
or not.

I cannot move into the merge function without confirming it first.
Added to that I'm working on saving some metadata on the first 24 bytes of a 
file but I'm messing up how I'm referencing the struct.

Monday, June 17, 2024

YEAAAAH today is a big success, I improved the write to pieces function,
removed a bad truncate flag from write function.
Added metadata to the start of the file(this will be useful for the merge)

Tomorrow I'll keep working on appropiately making a readed function for the 
metadata, which in hindsight is the same debug function.
I wonder on which header I will put it.. ummm

Thursday, June 20, 2024

Finished the first complete working program, it can split a file in 10 parts
and merge it back again to reconstruct the exact same file.

Sunday, June 23, 2024

Working on cleaning main a little bit more, I have a bug where split size is 
being used as path input.

Friday, July 05, 2024

I finished fixing the bug I was passing parameters in the wrong order.
Now the next thing is to arrange that the merge function also asks for what 
piece to merge.

I also added custom merge and output paths now!
Next will be to add a custom naming convencion for piece names.

Done with all of that :) 
